For my breakout game, I would like to recreate the standard breakout game with variations in mechanics that affects all
facets of the game, including each level, the paddle, the blocks, power-ups, etc. By adding in variations to these
components in the game, I believe I can make the game more difficult and more enjoyable to play compared to the original
basic version.

After looking at other variants of the game, I found the Pinball Breakout variant interesting, as it combined the two
classic games Breakout and Pinball to form an ultimate hybrid game. The game contained up to four paddles with pinball
flippers and balls could travel between the two panes. Paddles for each pane had to controlled at same time increasing
the overall difficulty of the game. Like this variant, I plan to include paddles on multiple sides of the screen that
are controlled simultaneously by the user at certain points in the game. I will get into this further as I discuss my
plan. Overall, apart from the original Breakout game, I plan to implement parts and features of other variants to better
improve my game.

Upon running the program, the user will see a start-up screen that displays the title of the game, the current high
scorer and score for the session, as well as a button to access help menu. This help menu will detail the instructions
of the game, including how the levels works, the point system, as well as the various abilities of the blocks, paddle,
and power-ups. The user can click a "back" button to access the home screen again.

After clicking the "play" button, the user will begin level one of the game. The game will have four different levels
with each having additional features for the game that build upon one another. For each level, the game will display two
panes on screen. Both panes will be of the same height and connected to each other. The first and second pane will have
about a 1:3 ratio in terms of width. The first pane will have buttons to exit to main menu and to pause the game. When
the user clicks the "menu" button, a dialog will pop up asking if the user is sure that he/she wants to exit the game
and return to the main menu, also stating that progress will be lost and the score will not count. The user will have
yes and no options. The user can also click the "pause" button, which will pause the game up to 60 seconds. After the 60
seconds, the game will resume. When the user clicks the "pause" button, the button will become a "resume" button. It
will become a "pause" button again after the game is resumed. The level number will be displayed under the
"pause/resume" button. The number of lives will be displayed under the level number. The current score for the level
will be displayed under the number of lives in slightly bigger font. This first pane will not change between the levels.
The second pane will be where the game is actually played.

Level one will be the easiest difficulty and will feature basic gameplay with limited features. The paddle for this
level will be at the bottom of the screen and its length will be about 1/5 of the width of the screen. The level will
contain nine rows of 12 rectangular blocks each. Each row will stretch the width of the game screen. The blocks on each
row will be of a different color. If the ball breaks a block on the bottom or first row, the user will earn 1 point.
Blocks on the second row are worth two points and so on. The user can move the paddle side to side along the bottom of
the screen. If the user goes past the edges of the screen, the paddle will wrap around to the other side. The ball will
start connected to the paddle. The ball will release once the user clicks the screen. The user can move the paddle
freely even if the ball has not been released yet. The ball will release straight upward. If the ball hits the left
third or right third of the paddle, the ball will bounce back in the same direction from which it came. If the ball hits
the middle third of the paddle, the ball bounce off the paddle normally. This paddle logic will apply for every level.

The ball can bounce of all walls except the bottom. If the ball goes past the bottom wall, the user will lose a life.
The ball will reset and be connected to the paddle again. If the player allows the ball to go past the bottom wall and
has 0 lives left, the game will end. A dialog will pop up asking the user to enter his/her name. Once the user enters a
name, another dialog will pop up displaying the top five high scores and players for the current session.
Levels will end once all blocks are broken. If the user completes the current level, a dialog will pop up,
stating the user's current total score along with a "Next" button. The user will proceed to the next level upon clicking
"Next".

Level two will increase in difficulty and will have additional features. The length of the paddle will remain the same.
THe ball however will move a bit faster throughout the level. This level will have the same block configuration as the
previous level, however there will be an extra row added to the bottom of gray metal color blocks. These blocks will
require two hits to be broken and will not give the user any points. The block will turn a darker color after being hit
once. Randomly dispersed throughout the rest of the rows will be power up blocks. Level two will contain 6 power up
blocks. Although these blocks do not give the user any points when hit, a powerup icon will slowly descend to the bottom
of the screen directly down from the broken block. If the paddle catches the powerup icon, the user will be given a
random powerup. These powerups are listed below:

    Extra ball: Once the powerup is activated, an extra ball will shoot out straight up from the center of the paddle,
    whererever it is.

    Double points: Once the powerup is activated, the user will earn double points for 15 seconds.

    +50 bonus: Once the powerup is activated, the user will immediately earn 50 points.

    Laser: Once the powerup is activated, a lazer will added to the paddle and will shoot lazers straight upward every
    second for 15 seconds. The lazer will do one health damage to a block.

    Stretched paddle: Once the powerup is activated, the paddle will double in length for 15 seconds.

    Extra life: Once the powerup is activated, the user will earn an extra life.

Level three will increase in difficulty and will have additional features. The length of the paddle will shrink by 30%.
The ball move a bit faster throughout the level. This level will have a block structure in the shape of a diamond. The
structure will start one row closer to the paddle than usual. The diamond will still be composed of rectangular blocks,
and will be half a block away from each side wall at its widest point. The diamond will be approximately 10 blocks tall.
The blocks that will compose the diamond will be randomized with each block having a point count based on its color.
There will be grey metal blocks interspersed that have double health. There will be eight powerups randomly placed in
the diamond.

Level four will increase in difficulty and will have additional features. The length of the paddle will remain the same
as the previous level. The ball will move at the same speed as the previous level. The level will have the same diamond
structure as the previous level. However, this level will have an additional paddle at the top of the screen. Balls
that go past the top wall will be lost. The user starts with two balls, each connected to one of the paddles. If the
user loses a ball, the game continues. If the user loses both balls, the user loses a life and both paddles reset again
with two balls. Powerups will still descend downwards and must be caught by the bottom paddle. If an extra ball powerup
is activated, two extra balls are added, one from each paddle. If a laser powerup is caught, both paddles gets lazers.
If a stretched paddle powerup is caught, both paddles are stretched.

Once the user completes level four, a dialog will pop up asking asking the user to enter his/her name. Once the user
enters a name, another dialog will pop up displaying the top five high scores and players for the current session, as
well as the users score. The bottom of the dialog will have a "Play Again" button, which will reset the entire game.

Given extra time or provided that I am able to complete my basic requirements early, I would like to add a settings
button to the home screen, that has options to disable music or reset high scores for the session. Additionally, I would
like to add a block that has a picture of a bomb on it and descends from the top from a random point every 15 seconds.
If the paddle gets hit by this block, the user will lose a life. This feature would start from the second level.